jobs: draft PGlite Engineer role. (#1780)
electric-sql/electric: website/about/jobs/pglite-engineer.md

---
title: PGlite Engineer - Jobs
description: >-
  We're looking for a generalist web and systems engineer to join the core PGlite team,
  working mainly in Typescript, Rust and C++.
image: /img/icons/pglite.svg
outline: deep
---

# PGlite Engineer

| | |
| ----- | -------- |
| **Basis** | Full time or contract |
| **Salary** | €80-100k |
| **Location** | Remote in Europe or eastern US |
| **Published** | 1st October 2024 |
| **Deadline**  | 21st October 2024 |

We're looking for a generalist web and systems engineer to join the core PGlite team, working mainly in Typescript, Rust and C++.

PGlite is a [lightweight embeddable/WASM Postgres](https://pglite.dev). It's a fast growing open source project, with 8k GitHub stars and over 100k weekly downloads. It opens up new possibilities for local-first apps and systems built on an embedded, real-time, reactive Postgres, such as [https://postgres.new](https://postgres.new)

> You'll be part of the core PGlite team at [ElectricSQL](https://electric-sql.com/about/team), working closely with [Sam Willis](https://github.com/samwillis) and [Paul Peny](https://github.com/pmp-p). It's a full time or contract role, working remotely in Europe or eastern US. Remuneration depends on the basis but would be a ~€80-100k salary for full time (we work a 4 day week).

Reviewer: > Remuneration depends on the basis

"that basis"?

See the [Jobs](/about/jobs) and [Team](/about/team) pages for more information.

You will collaborate with partners and contributors like Supabase and the wider open source community. So you need great communication skills and ideally experience of building open source.

Technically, you need strong Typescript and systems programming experience, ideally in C++ and Rust. It would be great if (but is not essential that) you're familiar with some aspects of database internals, filesystems and WASM.

Current priorities include developing a libpglite version of PGite that can be embedded in native apps, creating an HTTP/S3 VFS, multi-connection, robustness and stability improvements.  Example tasks that you might pick up include things like:

- write a HTTP VFS for PGlite (in Typescript) that allows an instance to load a database from a HTTP or S3 end point, using HTTP range requests
- improve the OPFS VFS so that it works in Safari, this probably involves creating a mini-filesystem (using b-trees) that maps multiple files to a single file

> - fix bugs in PGlite - Could be anything from JS/TS bugs to chasing down obscure bugs in Postgres caused by it being compiled to WASM

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- fix bugs in PGlite - could be anything from JS/TS bugs to chasing down obscure issues caused by compiled Postgres to WASM
```

- help to port Postgres extensions that are written in c++ (pg_duck) or Rust (pg_search) to PGlite

> - create a Postgres extension that allows you to call Javascript functions from Postgres triggers (could be a SQLite application defined function style api or a full Postgres procedural language plugin that calls JS in the host environment)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- create a Postgres extension that allows you to call Javascript functions from Postgres triggers
```

- investigate and build out support for PGlite on various serverless/edge platforms (Cloudflare, Fastly), would involve building VFSs backed by object stores and optimising the WASM build for restricted environments

> - socument how to build Postgres extensions for PGlite for common languages (C, C++, Rust)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- document how to build Postgres extensions for PGlite for common languages (C, C++, Rust)
```
